Sample Vulnerable Code
This is some very basic
C source code
for an application vulnerable
to a buffer overflow.
Even without knowledge of C,
the logic of this program
is fairly easy to understand.
First of all, it’s worth noting that in C,
the main function is treated the
same as every other function;
it can receive arguments,
return values, etc.
The only difference is that it’s
“called” by the operating system itself
when the process starts.
In this case, the main function
first defines a character array
named buffer that can fit up
to 64 characters.
Since this variable is
defined within a function,
the C compiler will treat
it as a local variable
and will reserve space
for it on the stack.
Specifically, this memory
space will be reserved
within the main
function stack frame
during its execution when
the program runs.
The program then proceeds
to copy the content
of the given command-line argument
into the buffer character array.
Note that the C language does not
natively support strings as a data type.
At a low level, a string is a sequence of
characters terminated by a null character,
or put another way, a one-dimensional
array of characters.
Finally, the program
terminates its execution
and returns a zero to
the operating system,
which is the standard
exit code for success.
When we call this program, we’ll pass
command-line arguments to it.
The main function processes these arguments
with the help of two parameters,
argc and argv, which represent the number
of the arguments passed to the program
and an array of pointers to the argument
“strings” themselves, respectively.
If the argument passed to the
main function is 64 characters or less,
this program will work as
expected and will exit normally.
However, since there are no
checks on the size of the input,
if the argument is
longer, say 80 bytes,
part of the stack adjacent
to the target buffer
will be overwritten by the
remaining 16 characters,
overflowing the array boundaries.
The effects of this memory corruption
depend on multiple factors
including the size of the overflow and
the data included in that overflow.
To see how this works in our scenario,
we can apply an oversized argument to
our application and observe the effects.